[Music]
eight great tips for survival at sea
most of us adore visiting beach resorts
at least once a year however you
shouldn't forget that the sea is as
attractive as wayward do you know how to
swim and behave in the open water here
are several rules that might save your
life one day the most important trick is
number one as it works wonders in any
desperate situation number eight calm
down it's not surprising that people who
find themselves in the open water have a
wild fear for their life however panic
definitely won't help you it can cloud
your judgment and make you lose the
rhythm of breathing therefore the first
thing you should do is to calm down
number 7 choose the right swimming style
in this situation sooner or later you'll
have to move in the water the style of
swimming you choose determines how long
your strength will last
remember these two rules one in calm
water it's better to swim on your back
in this case you'll get the opportunity
to relax as much as possible and breathe
evenly
- if waves splash around you it's better
to swim on your belly
for instance try the breaststroke take a
breath of air then lower your head into
the water and exhale if you don't keep
your head above the water surface all
the time you will save more energy
number 6
find something that floats if you're in
the open sea as a result of a shipwreck
or an airplane water landing there must
be plenty of things around you that
perfectly keep afloat it will be even
better if it's a boat or a raft with
which ships are equipped number 5 take
care of clothes remember that open
sunlight can be extremely dangerous so
don't remove your clothes they'll
protect you from the Sun if you're
half-naked try to find something that
can shelter you from the sun's rays
ideally build a tent that will create
shade number four decide what you'll eat
it's good if you have an emergency food
ration on your raft however you won't
necessarily starve without one if you
have rations divide them into small
daily portions this will make them last
for a long time and you won't have
problems with digestion if you don't
have one you can make a fishing rod from
lace and a can as a hook and try to fish
if you lack such items try catching
seaweed small fish can get stuck there
try to fish even if you have stores of
food after all fish contains some liquid
never eat spoiled foods no matter how
hungry you are
number three provide yourself with
liquid during a forced sailing
water is much more valuable than food
after all you almost don't move and you
are wasting little energy you have to
consume the liquid constantly but never
drink seawater here are some simple ways
to get drinking water one condensate
you'll need a box two containers
waterproof material and weights take one
container and pour sea water inside
place the other in a box next to it
secured some waterproof material such as
polyethylene above both put a weight
over the empty container soon the
container will be filled with fresh
water to rain water try to ensure that
you always have a couple of empty
containers left for collecting rainwater
don't worry
according to studies drinking untreated
rainwater is safe for your health number
two
save yourself properly it's no wonder
that in such a situation you'll want to
step on solid ground as soon as possible
however you should consider all your
rescue measures carefully remember these
simple rules if you have no idea where
you are don't row rely on the current it
has more chance of carrying you to land
don't rush into the water if you see a
ship in the distance don't try to catch
up to it it's almost impossible it's
better to give a signal with a mirror or
a piece of cam don't try to signal by
fire so as not to endanger your
temporary shelter in the form of a raft
if you were lucky enough to get a few
flares don't send the flares up and
avoid wait until the ship appears at a
distance if you found fluorescing
dissolve it in the water when you can
see an airplane or ship it forms a
bright spot around you which can be
easily seen from the air and from afar
number one don't lose hope
the spare is your most dangerous enemy
don't give up hope of being saved there
are many stories of people who were
found in the open sea months after their
disappearance
for instance 25 year-old sailor poon Lim
who worked on a British merchant ship
survived alone 133 days in the open sea
after a shipwreck he managed to find a
raft with fresh water
cookies flares and a flashlight every
day Lim ate only two cookies and made
three sips of water to avoid muscle
atrophy
he even floated around the raft twice a
day
as you can see human possibilities are
endless the main thing is to keep calm
and hope for the best if you enjoyed the
video don't forget to hit them
[Music]
you